HIROSAKI, Aomori Prefecture—Sake connoisseurs wanting to try the top breweries in Aomori Prefecture and enjoy drinking with experts can sign up for new taxi tours supervised by a sake sommelier that started in November. 

The various tours offer visits to local sake breweries and are led by drivers who have passed the sake diploma examination conducted by the Japan Sommelier Association.

Hokusei Kotsu Co., a local taxi operator based in Hirosaki, created the tours to help participants better enjoy the charms of the top sake brewed in the prefecture and have fun along the way.

“Experience delicious sake brewery tours with our local sake taxi,” said Hokusei Kotsu President Yasuhiro Shimoyama.

Izumi Miya, a sommelier from the city, supervises the tours.

Miya, an Aomori Jizake ambassador certified by the Aomori Brewers Association, also gives lectures to help prepare for the sake diploma examination.

The tour drivers are Satoru Fukuda, 60, Hiroki Sasaki, 61, and Mamoru Fujimoto, 60. All took lectures from Miya and passed the sake diploma examination.

For a standard car with a capacity of up to four people, courses include a two-hour tour visiting two sake breweries, a three-and-a-half-hour tour visiting one winery and three sake breweries, and a three-hour custom tour accompanied by Miya for local sake experiences in the city and beyond.

Prices range from 12,800 yen to 29,200 yen ($82 to $187) per vehicle including tax. Participants are required to pay tasting and admission fees at the breweries individually.

Tours can also be customized, and in addition to standard cars for four passengers, jumbo taxis for up to nine passengers are available.

“I want to introduce ways to enjoy local sake beyond just drinking and share the stories behind each sake variety,” Fukuda said.

“I want to introduce the rich sake culture of Tsugaru (western Aomori),” Fujimoto said enthusiastically.

“I hope to help create fun memories,” Sasaki said.

Reservations must be made at least two days in advance via the company’s website: (https://www.hokuseikotsu.co.jp/blog/34598)
